Would it be fair to say
the messaging around this point
falls in the frame of due diligence?
It's not possible to be prepared for
everything.
It's not possible to
think through every case.
But I can come reasonably prepared, and
I can come prepared with more than I say.
So I have the ability to say no, well,
we're not talking about
where secrets could start.
We have some people who will talk to
us about that, so let's keep going.
That's almost more of a due
diligence practice to your projects,
to your own goals.
Then some sort of magic if
I'm understanding correctly.
>> I mean you say my next point here,
right?
Which is you prepare for 100% so
you can say 5%,coming into those
meetings to prepared with all those
various different answers so that.
My favorite tactic and all these things is
like, we are not talking about that now,
here is the one sentence
answer to your question.
If you need more, here is stack or
put time on my calendar, right?
Because it shows that like, you are
prepared, you do know the answer to that
and you do not want to derail what
you are talking about, right?
The one sentence answer and the
acknowledgement is like I understand you
here's your most of your answer
you need more come find me.
Generally it was really successful for
me at Microsoft which was the most
contentious meeting culture
that I was a part of.
I don't mean that in the positive way.
There's just a lot of competing interests
at Microsoft cuz it's so big, right?
This isn't another way for
me to harp on this point up here,
which is that just because you
know the answer and you know, and
like you did a bunch of work
to find out the answer.
You don't have to share that.
Results will speak way longer or
way louder for your, like,
how good you are as a PM than just
talking a lot in meetings, right?
So, be aware that you're gonna do a bunch
of work to get ready for meetings or
to get ready for docs that you're just
never gonna share with anybody, right?
But you know the answer those questions
when they pop up like you're gonna
be well prepared for those things.
Last thing here is this is not
high school English class or
a secondary language school for
whatever country you're from.
In my high school English class I was very
encouraged to use a wide vocabulary to
have varied structures to have different
paragraphs to really engage with the pros,
right?
And make people feel things because of
you know the pros I was writing, right?
Don't do that,
this is technical writing this is wildly
different I don't need poetry
in mice product specs, right?
Technical writing is an entirely different
skill set than what you know writing
essays three SATs are you should use very
direct language, very plain language.
Don't use acronyms that you don't have to,
don't use initialisms that you don't have
to, don't use just silly
vocabulary that's not pertinent.
Your goal here is to drive understanding
not to self-aggrandize, right?
So it's a virtue to have
very easy to read writing.
It's a virtue to have a appropriate
reading level of vocabulary for
whoever you're speaking to.
These are all really good things and I'm
encouraging you to write plainer English.
Try and use direct voice,
use less indirect voice,
make your things actions that you are
following through on, make things goals
are things that are true or false if
don't try and dry these Grant analogies.
Analogies and metaphors are ,unless
they are driving understand them,
just leave them out, right again,
this is me just picking a bone that
I've had with previous PMS before.
It's like I feel I'm reading
like a novella, right?
And there's like a beginning
middle middle and end, right?
And anyway, don't do that I don't I don't
need a romance story in my product spec or
maybe I do I guess I'd be entertaining so
if you're
gonna do it at least make it entertaining
>> How do you go about giving feedback
to maybe one of your peers or your co
workers That is breaking a Brian rule.
>> [LAUGH] I just tell them as
you're making breaking Brian rules.
>> So that's it, you got it.
>> Move on.
>> That could be a whole course in itself.
It's like how do you influence peers?
It depends, right?
It's a tricky balanced to strike.
Because it's very easy to go
cross over from here's honest,
earnest feedback that I'm trying to
help you with to I feel attacked and
you're attacking the way that I pm which
is attacking me as a human, right?
So it's gonna be I try in general like,
if I feel like I can influence someone and
help them to like, be better either to
themselves or to me or work better.
I will engage in that kind of behavior and
if I just know it's gonna fall on deaf
ears I'm just I'm spending social capital
for no reason I just don't give it to
honestly, that might be
too honest of an answer.
Hopefully snowflakes not watching this.
No, I try and give feedback to people that
I think will will take it and use it,
and I try and
do it in a way that that's useful to them.
So and that's going to be highly
contextual to whomever you're giving that
feedback to.
But I have given feedback to to us,
particularly a junior PM that I
used to work with, I was like.
Your technical writing is too flowery,
right?
You're using too many,
this feels like an essay to me.
Just tell me what you want from me and
use a quarter of the language
that you're doing it with.
And she did, and it was awesome,
and she's fantastic PM now.
Still what she was anyway, but
her writing was much better to read.
>> Have you, do you find yourself in
circumstances where you have to get
technical material or technical writing
from engineers or other folks outside?
How do you manage that?
I'll put myself on the table.
Most common feedback I get is, this is
terse, but it has way too much math in it.
So two pages is too short 'cause
it should be five or 10, right?
Because it's dense, that doesn't work
any better than long descriptions.
But when you are working with
folks who don't regularly
communicate with the outside world.
How do you approach that?
>> I just keep them
locked in the basement.
Yeah, well, I don't let out.
>> That's a good idea.
>> [LAUGH].
[INAUDIBLE].
>> Yeah, I have done this before is
particularly with technical architects
that are like you know on Mount Olympus
right that l are communing
with the gods of the cosmos of like
how do I organize containers right?
[COUGH] And
I just harp on them continually
is like who are you writing to?
And if you gave me a doc full of math and
I'm, this is not for me.
You did not write a bunch of math for
me or
you don't know me whether it's one
of the two things there right.
You are writing down something so
that I can understand something and
I am not getting there.
And so I'm gonna ask you
continually is like write this for
me what am I getting out of this, right?
And I'll just keep sending it back to us
I don't get it, until eventually they're
gonna write something is like what I'm
trying to tell you here's enough math.
That's written in such a way
that it's understandable, and
here's what that actually means to
you.That usually ends up with something
understandable in the middle.
>> More of an editing process,
you have to be actively engaged.
>> I'm just letting him know,
I'm an idiot.
Please speak to the idiots, right?
Don't speak to the smart person behind
the idiots, talk to the idiot, right?
So, audience, it's just reminding
them over and over and over again,
it's like, who is this for?
Yeah.
And like, I told you, I think I told many
of you, I'm a college dropout, right?
So the only class I think I
reference frequently, and I hate it,
because it was like my least favorite
class in college was technical writing,
but I, use it all the time.
It's so important to being a good PM,
your power as a PM is in your ability
to communicate, to drive understanding,
and to drive alignment.
And so unfortunately,
the advice I have to give all of you and
I don't want to, is that a technical
writing course will serve you so well.
Even reading a book,
reading a blog post, but
really focusing in is how can I improve
my ability to communicate makes
you a powerful contributor
at your company.
My ability, when I was at Microsoft to
move the company like this trillion
dollar company, was my ability
to write slide decks because
everything's a slide deck at Microsoft.
That's how I was able to, like make
hundreds of millions of dollars for
Microsoft, which is cool, right?
It's cool to say that,
like, I pointed out, like, I worked
on that and I got that through and
it was this stock that I wrote that got a
bunch of people working on the same thing.
So do that.
I'm sorry.
I truly am.